---
layout: about
title: about j2form
---
h1. About j2form

j2form was written by Kevin Holloway as part of a larger piece of software called PennyLedger.  PennyLedger is a simple accounting package targeted a small business, clubs and societies, and home use.  PennyLedger is still being developed.

h1. About Kevin Holloway

Kevin grew up in Adelaide, Australia.  He obtained a B.A.Hons at Flinders University majoring in pure mathematics and philosophy.  Kevin later obtained a postgraduate degreee in computer science at Adelaide University.

After learning a variety of programming languages, Kevin settled on Java as his language of choice.  He obtained Java Programmer and Java Practitioner certification from Sun in 1999.

In Aelaide Kevin worked for the South Australia government on a variety of projects, including the development of internal and customer facing web sites, security and data analysis.

In 2006 Kevin and his wife Jackie travelled to the UK for an extended working holiday.  While there Kevin worked as a Solutions Architect, developing internal and customer facing web sites based on Java technologies.  He worked in government and private enterprise.  While in the UK, Kevin obtained British citizenship.

The "working holiday" lasted 7&frac12; years.  Jackie and Kevin then spent a year in New Zealand before returning to Adelaide, Australia.

Kevin is now retired.  His job now is to publish and document the code he has developed (j2form and PennyLedger).
