---
layout: default
title: Number sign
---
{% include navbar.html below="documentation" %}

<div id="toc" class="pull-right">
* Documentation
** "Built-in types(Java types that are supported out of the box)":builtinTypes
** "Annotations(How annotations can be used to enhance field validation)":annotations
** "Defaults(How defaults can be specified as initial values or calculated at runtime)":defaults
</div>

h1. {{page.title}}

Whether an data entry field can be signed or not.

|SIGNED|Conventional signed number.  On data entry, a sign (+ or -) can be entered.  Entry of a + sign for positive numbers is optional.|
|UNSIGNED|Conventional unsigned number.  On data entry, no sign may be entered.  Even for positive numbers, the + sign cannot be entered.|
|RARE_SIGN|A conventional signed number (see above) but with a slightly more compact display.

When displaying values the conventional rules apply.  Negative numbers are displayed with a leading minus sign.  Zero and positive numbers are displayed without a sign.

Values can also be displayed in other formats.  For example, when displaying values on financial reports, negative numbers are displayed with surrounding parentheses () while zero and positive numbers are displayed without parentheses. 

The difference between SIGNED and RARE_SIGN is the size of the data entry and display fields.  RARE_SIGN fields assume that negative numbers are smaller than positive numbers and will fit into the size allowed for positive numbers.  SIGNED data entry and display fields have a length of: (number of digits) + 1.  The +1 allows for the sign.  RARE_SIGN fields have a length of: (number of digits) only.

There is an enumeration @NumberSign@ that is used for the data entry sign:

{% highlight java %}
public enum NumberSign {

  SIGNED,		// + or - sign can be used
  RARE_SIGN,	// ditto above
  MUST_SIGN,	// + and - signs must be used
  UNSIGNED;		// no sign can be entered
}
{% endhighlight %}

